<location>WEST PALM BEACH</location>, Fla.  —   When   Donald J. Trump rang in the new year this
weekend, he did it in   opulence, joined by the actor Sylvester Stallone, the
gossip page fixture Fabio and a crowd of wealthy developers reveling under the
swaying palm trees at Mr. Trump’s    resort in <location>palm beach</location>. President George W.
Bush had his ranch in Crawford, Tex. His father had a compound in
Kennebunkport, Me. President Obama has taken frequent vacations in Hawaii,
staying at a private home. But Mr. Trump’s   private club in
<location>Florida</location>, where he has spent the past two weeks away from
his home in <location>New York</location> City, is likely to eclipse them all
as the 45th president’s winter White House. And that was always the intention
of Marjorie Meriweather Post, the cereal heiress and the property’s original
owner, who left    to the federal government when she died in 1973, hoping it
would serve as a home for presidents. But the government had no interest in her
plan, and Mr. Trump later bought the property for less than $10 million,
turning it into a club where membership costs six figures. Mr. Trump’s arrival
was greeted with sneers by the palm beach elite, and he opened up   ’s
membership to Jews and   who had been excluded from other   establishments. He
was also the first club owner on the island to admit an openly gay couple.
Since Mr. Trump’s victory in November,    has been stuffed with guests
attracted by an amenity unique to this club: the chance to rub shoulders with
the next president. “It’s like going to Disneyland and knowing Mickey Mouse
will be there all day long,” said Jeff Greene, a developer and unsuccessful
Democratic candidate for the Senate from <location>Florida</location> in 2010,
who is a member and was a Hillary Clinton supporter. Instead of hosting major
corporate executives and potential cabinet secretaries for interviews inside a
boxy transition office at Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan, Mr. Trump has been
seated at an ornately designed couch, upholstered in pale fabric laced with
gold, beneath a chandelier hanging from the ceiling, a scene resembling a
mansion in “Sunset Boulevard” or “Citizen Kane,” two of Mr. Trump’s favorite
movies. At night, the couches are moved out and tables are added to accommodate
the evening cocktail crowd, among whom Mr. Trump moves from one table to the
next, the most powerful greeter in the world. At the annual New Year’s Eve
party on Saturday night, a   white menu included “Mr. Trump’s wedge salad,” a
wild mushroom and Swiss chard ravioli and a “breakfast buffet. ” Those in
attendance drifted in under a    striped awning, the men dressed in tuxedos,
the women in ball gowns, many with their hair swept high. Guests stepped onto a
red carpet as they entered the club and wandered over to a poolside cocktail
party. Mr. Trump later delivered remarks, according to a guest, who said he
thanked his family and the club members for their support over the years. Howie
Carr, a conservative radio host who was supportive of Mr. Trump, roamed the
crowd, with Mr. Carr posting on Twitter that his daughter asked Mr. Trump if
she could be an intern in the White House. Mr. Trump’s two adult sons, Eric and
Donald Jr. posed for photographs. Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski from
MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” were also there. Like most aspects of Mr. Trump’s
business interests, the party generated controversy as tickets to it were made
available to club members and guests for a little more than $500. Mr. Trump’s
aides rejected the questions. Mr. Trump returned to <location>New
York</location> on Sunday night. But the club will remain an escape for him.
His contentious Twitter posts belie his relative calm when he is at    compared
with when he is isolated inside Trump Tower. Mr. Trump’s combative public
persona  —   often on display during his campaign  —   mostly dissolves behind
the   walls of his castle. “   is an environment he can control,” said the
historian Douglas Brinkley, who last week attended a    lunch with a longtime
club member, Chris Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax Media. “I watched him
hold court  —   he was so comfortable in his own skin, and so relaxed.
