Concerned that word of the hacking might leak, they decided to go public in The <location>Washington</location> Post with the news that the committee had been attacked. That way, they figured, they could get ahead of the story, win a little sympathy from voters for being victimized by Russian hackers and refocus on the campaign. But the very next day, a new, deeply unsettling shock awaited them. 
 Someone calling himself Guccifer 2. 0 appeared on the web, claiming to be the
D. N. C. hacker  —   and he posted a confidential committee document detailing
Mr. Trump’s record and half a dozen other documents to prove his bona fides.
“And it’s just a tiny part of all docs I downloaded from the Democrats
networks,” he wrote. Then something more ominous: “The main part of the papers,
thousands of files and mails, I gave to WikiLeaks. They will publish them soon.
” It was bad enough that Russian hackers had been spying inside the committee’s
network for months. Now the public release of documents had turned a
conventional espionage operation into something far more menacing: political
sabotage, an unpredictable, uncontrollable menace for Democratic campaigns.
Guccifer 2. 0 borrowed the moniker of an earlier hacker, a Romanian who called
himself Guccifer and was jailed for breaking into the personal computers of
former President George W. Bush, former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and
other notables. This new attacker seemed intent on showing that the D. N. C. ’s
cyberexperts at CrowdStrike were wrong to blame <location>Russia</location>.
Guccifer 2. 0 called himself a “lone hacker” and mocked CrowdStrike for calling
the attackers “sophisticated. ” But online investigators quickly undercut his
story. On a whim, Lorenzo   a writer for Motherboard, the tech and culture site
of Vice, tried to contact Guccifer 2. 0 by direct message on Twitter.
“Surprisingly, he answered right away,” Mr.   said. But whoever was on the
other end seemed to be mocking him. “I asked him why he did it, and he said he
wanted to expose the Illuminati. He called himself a Gucci lover. And he said
he was Romanian. ” That gave Mr.   an idea. Using Google Translate, he sent the
purported hacker some questions in Romanian. The answers came back in Romanian.
But when he was offline, Mr.   checked with a couple of native speakers, who
told him Guccifer 2. 0 had apparently been using Google Translate as well  —
and was clearly not the Romanian he claimed to be. Cyberresearchers found other
clues pointing to <location>Russia</location>. Microsoft Word documents posted
by Guccifer 2. 0 had been edited by someone calling himself, in Russian, Felix
Edmundovich  —   an obvious nom de guerre honoring the founder of the Soviet
secret police, Felix Edmundovich Dzerzhinsky. Bad links in the texts were
marked by warnings in Russian, generated by what was clearly a   version of
Word. When Mr.   managed to engage Guccifer 2. 0 over a period of weeks, he
found that his interlocutor’s tone and manner changed. “At first he was
careless and colloquial. Weeks later, he was curt and more calculating,” he
said. “It seemed like a group of people, and a very sloppy attempt to cover up.
” Computer experts drew the same conclusion about DCLeaks. com, a site that
sprang up in June, claiming to be the work of “hacktivists” but posting more
stolen documents. It, too, seemed to be a clumsy front for the same Russians
who had stolen the documents. Notably, the website was registered in April,
suggesting that the Russian hacking team planned well in advance to make public
what it stole. In addition to what Guccifer 2. 0 published on his site, he
provided material directly on request to some bloggers and publications. The
steady flow of Guccifer 2. 0 documents constantly undercut Democratic messaging
efforts. On July 6, 12 days before the Republican National Convention began in
Cleveland, Guccifer released the D. N. C. ’s battle plan and budget for
countering it. For Republican operatives, it was insider gold. Then WikiLeaks,
a far more established outlet, began to publish the hacked material  —   just
as Guccifer 2. 0 had promised. On July 22, three days before the start of the
Democratic National Convention in <location>Philadelphia</location>, WikiLeaks
dumped out 44, 053 D. N. C. emails with 17, 761 attachments. Some of the
messages made clear that some D. N. C. officials favored Mrs. Clinton over her
progressive challenger, Mr. Sanders. That was no shock Mr. Sanders, after all,
had been an independent socialist, not a Democrat, during his long career in
Congress, while Mrs. Clinton had been one of the party’s stars for decades. But
the emails, some of them crude or insulting, infuriated Sanders delegates as
they arrived in <location>Philadelphia</location>. Ms. Wasserman Schultz
resigned under pressure on the eve of the convention where she had planned to
preside. Mr. Trump, by now the Republican nominee, expressed delight at the
continuing jolts to his opponent, and he began to use Twitter and his stump
speeches to highlight the WikiLeaks releases.
