n July 25, he sent out a lighthearted tweet: “The new joke in town,” he wrote,
“is that <location>Russia</location> leaked the disastrous D. N. C.   which
should never have been written (stupid) because Putin likes me. ” But WikiLeaks
was far from finished. On Oct. 7, a month before the election, the site began
the serial publication of thousands of private emails to and from Mr. Podesta,
Mrs. Clinton’s campaign manager. The same day, the <location>United
States</location> formally accused the Russian government of being behind the
hackings, in a joint statement by the director of national intelligence and the
Department of Homeland Security, and Mr. Trump suffered his worst blow to date,
with the release of a recording in which he bragged about sexually assaulting
women. The Podesta emails were nowhere near as sensational as the Trump video.
But, released by WikiLeaks day after day over the last month of the campaign,
they provided material for countless news reports. They disclosed the contents
of Mrs. Clinton’s speeches to large banks, which she had refused to release.
They exposed tensions inside the campaign, including disagreements over
donations to the Clinton Foundation that staff members thought might look bad
for the candidate and Ms. Tanden’s complaint that Mrs. Clinton’s instincts were
“suboptimal. ” “I was just mortified,” Ms. Tanden said in an interview. Her
emails were released on the eve of one of the presidential debates, she
recalled. “I put my hands over my head and said, ‘I can’t believe this is
happening to me. ’” Though she had regularly appeared on television to support
Mrs. Clinton, she canceled her appearances because all the questions were about
what she had said in the emails. Ms. Tanden, like other Democrats whose
messages became public, said it was obvious to her that WikiLeaks was trying
its best to damage the Clinton campaign. “If you care about transparency, you
put all the emails out at once,” she said. “But they wanted to hurt her. So
they put them out 1, 800 to 3, 000 a day. ” The Trump campaign knew in advance
about WikiLeaks’ plans. Days before the Podesta email release began, Roger
Stone, a Republican operative working with the Trump campaign, sent out an
excited tweet about what was coming. But in an interview, Mr. Stone said he had
no role in the leaks he had just heard from an American with ties to WikiLeaks
that damning emails were coming. Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder and
editor, has resisted the conclusion that his site became a   for Russian
hackers working for Mr. Putin’s government or that he was deliberately trying
to undermine Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy. But the evidence on both counts appears
compelling. In a series of email exchanges, Mr. Assange refused to say anything
about WikiLeaks’ source for the hacked material. He denied that he had made his
animus toward Mrs. Clinton clear in public statements (“False. But what is
this? Junior high? ”) or that the site had timed the releases for maximum
negative effect on her campaign. “WikiLeaks makes its decisions based on
newsworthiness, including for its recent epic scoops,” he wrote. Mr. Assange
disputed the conclusion of the Oct. 7 statement from the intelligence agencies
that the leaks were “intended to interfere with the <location>U. S.
</location>election process. ” “This is false,” he wrote. “As the disclosing
party we know that this was not the intent. Publishers publishing newsworthy
information during an election is part of a free election. ” But asked whether
he believed the leaks were one reason for Mr. Trump’s election, Mr. Assange
seemed happy to take credit. “Americans extensively engaged with our
publications,” he wrote. “According to Facebook statistics WikiLeaks was the
most referenced political topic during October. ” 


