
ugh Mr. Assange did not say so, WikiLeaks’ best defense may be the conduct of
the mainstream American media. Every major publication, including The Times,
published multiple stories citing the D. N. C. and Podesta emails posted by
WikiLeaks, becoming a de facto instrument of Russian intelligence. Mr. Putin, a
student of martial arts, had turned two institutions at the core of American
democracy  —   political campaigns and independent media  —   to his own ends.
The media’s appetite for the hacked material, and its focus on the gossipy
content instead of the Russian source, disturbed some of those whose personal
emails were being reposted across the web. “What was really surprising to me?”
Ms. Tanden said. “I could not believe that reporters were covering it. ” Inside
the White House, as Mr. Obama’s advisers debated their response, their
conversation turned to <location>North Korea</location>. In late 2014, hackers
working for Kim   the North’s young and unpredictable leader, had carried out a
attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment intended to stop the Christmastime
release of a comedy about a C. I. A. plot to kill Mr. Kim. In that case,
embarrassing emails had also been released. But the real damage was done to
Sony’s own systems: More than 70 percent of its computers melted down when a
particularly virulent form of malware was released. Within weeks, intelligence
agencies traced the attack back to the North and its leadership. Mr. Obama
called <location>North Korea</location> out in public, and issued some
sanctions. The Chinese even cooperated, briefly cutting off the North’s
internet connections. As the first Situation Room meetings on the Russian
hacking began in July, “it was clear that <location>Russia</location> was going
to be a much more complicated case,” said one participant. The Russians clearly
had a more sophisticated understanding of American politics, and they were
masters of “kompromat,” their term for compromising information. But a formal
“attribution report” still had not been forwarded to the president. “It took
forever,” one senior administration official said, complaining about the pace
at which the intelligence assessments moved through the system. In August a
group that called itself the “Shadow Brokers” published a set of software tools
that looked like what the N. S. A. uses to break into foreign computer networks
and install “implants,” malware that can be used for surveillance or attack.
The code came from the Tailored Access Operations unit of the N. S. A. a
secretive group that mastered the arts of surveillance and cyberwar. 

