Ronald E. Neumann, the president of the American
Academy of Diplomacy, a   nonprofit association for former ambassadors and
senior diplomats, said it was reasonable to expect ambassadors to return at the
end of a term, given that they are direct representatives of the president with
broad grants of authority. But he could not recall an occasion on which such a
strict timeline had been applied. “When you have people out there whose only
reason for being an ambassador is their political connection to the outgoing
president of a different party, it’s pretty logical to say they should leave,”
said Mr. Neumann, a career Foreign Service officer who held ambassadorships in
<location>Algeria</location>, <location>Bahrain</location> and
<location>Afghanistan</location>. “But I don’t recollect there was ever a
guillotine in January where it was just, ‘Everybody out of the pool
immediately. ’” W. Robert Pearson, a former ambassador to Turkey and a scholar
at the Middle East Institute in <location>Washington</location>, said the rule
was “quite extraordinary,” adding that it could undermine American interests
and signal a hasty change in direction that exacerbates jitters among allies
about their relationships with the new administration. With the world already
primed to be worrying about such an abrupt change, “this is just a very
concrete signal that it is going to happen,” Mr. Pearson said. At a White House
farewell reception that Mr. Obama held on Wednesday night for noncareer
ambassadors, many of them commiserated, attendees said, comparing notes about
how to handle the situation. Some expressed dismay that Mr. Trump, whose wife,
Melania, has chosen to stay in New York to avoid moving the couple’s    son,
Barron, to a new school midyear, would not ensure that such allowances were
made for American ambassadors. They are weighing a direct appeal to Rex W.
Tillerson, Mr. Trump’s nominee for secretary of state, or other top transition
officials to reconsider the policy. Derek Shearer, a professor of diplomacy at
Occidental College who is a former <location>United States</location>
ambassador to <location>Finland</location>, said it was difficult to see a
rationale for the decision. “It feels like there’s an element just of spite and
payback in it,” he said. “I don’t see a higher policy motive. ” The State
Department informed all politically appointed ambassadors in a letter the day
after the election that they were to submit letters of resignation effective
Jan. 20. It instructed those who wanted to seek extensions to submit formal
requests explaining their justifications. Incoming presidents of both parties
have often made exceptions to allow ambassadors to wrap up personal affairs and
important diplomatic business while their successors were in the confirmation
process, which can take months. Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Mr. Obama all
granted extensions for a few politically appointed ambassadors. Former
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell offered particularly wide latitude to
ambassadors facing family issues, said Marc Grossman, a longtime diplomat and
former top State Department official who is vice chairman of the Cohen Group, a
Washington consultancy. “This was something that was important to Secretary
Powell because of his own experience living and serving all over the world, so
when people asked him, ‘Could I stay another couple of weeks, couple of months
my kids are finishing school,’ he was very accommodating,” Mr. Grossman said,
adding that his flexibility was an “exception” to the general practice. “He was
trying to, I think, send a message that family was important. ”
