On Thursday afternoon, some students said the
administration had done the right thing, despite the protests from alumni.
Antonio Phillips, 24, a senior and a drum major, welcomed the exposure. “We’re
musicians, so this is a good platform for us to showcase our talent in front of
the world,” he said. His friend Ken Randolph, 20, a junior who is not in the
band, said the concerns of alumni like Ms. Finney “weigh heavily on the
students of <location>Talladega</location>. ” But he said Mr. Trump might
benefit from the exposure to a black art form. “This is a part of our culture,”
Mr. Randolph said. “With it being on his front doorstep, he might be able to
apprehend the vibe and the culture. ” That drama in
<location>Talladega</location>, a city of 15, 000 about an hour’s drive east of
Birmingham, played out as black activists, including the N. A. A. C. P.
president, Cornell William Brooks, were arrested on Tuesday in Mobile in a
action at the office of Senator Jeff Sessions, the Alabama Republican nominated
to be attorney general in the Trump administration. Mr. Sessions, who is white,
was rejected by the Senate for a federal judgeship in 1986 after he was accused
of making racially insensitive statements. To some
<location>Talladega</location> alumni, the possibility that policies long
opposed by   could now be enacted by a   Congress and executive branch was what
made the notion of a black band marching for Mr. Trump seem so distasteful.
“There’s a great deal of fear in this country that the Voting Rights Act is
going to be abolished, that the Affordable Care Act is going to be abolished,
that Planned Parenthood is going to be cut off from funding, that Medicaid is
going be cut off from funding,” said J. Mason Davis, a Birmingham lawyer who
graduated from the college in 1956. “Don’t you understand why we have a fear of
the man?” Donavon Jackson, 24, a former trumpet player in the band who
graduated last year, said performing as part of the inauguration would be
particularly special for a college of about 1, 000 students whose band program
is only about five years old. The school does not have a football team, which
makes parade invitations all the more important. “I’m honored to go to a school
that can say they marched in an inauguration parade,” said Mr. Jackson, who
received a chemistry degree and now lives in <location>Houston</location>. “Not
necessarily for the person  —   and that’s not necessarily saying he’s a bad
person. ” In the statement on Thursday, school officials said they still faced
the “challenge” of raising more than $60, 000 to cover expenses for the trip.
The population of the city of <location>Talladega</location> is divided about
evenly between blacks and whites, and to a visitor, it can feel like a place
where racial harmony and discord coexist on seemingly parallel planes. Whites
speak with pride about the historic black college downtown  —   though one
white person was overheard on Wednesday warning of a liberal plot to foment a
“race war” so that President Obama might declare martial law before the
inauguration. While some residents said the band should stay home, and others
said it should attend the event in <location>Washington</location>, a few spoke
harshly of Mr. Trump while hoping the inauguration would help the band get
noticed  —   something the city, which was bypassed by the interstate highway
system, has struggled with in recent decades. Bonquita McClellan, 26, manages
her father’s restaurant, Big Mac’s Open Pit BBQ, near campus. Ms. McClellan,
who is black, said the disdain for Mr. Trump among her   peers was universal.
“If anybody would have had us in concentration camps,” she said, “it’d be him.
” But she also said the band should go and make a name for itself in the
nation’s capital. “How often,” she asked, “does <location>Talladega</location>
College get a chance to play for the president?” Up the street at a real estate
office near the   courthouse, Randy and Heather Roberts, a white couple who
voted for Mr. Trump, raved about the <location>Talladega</location> College
band and its performance at the Dec. 5 Christmas parade. Ms. Roberts showed a
video of the band on her phone. “They were phenomenal,” Ms. Roberts said. Ms.
Roberts, 41, said she grew up with black and white friends. Mr. Roberts, 48,
said he and his wife were pleased to cater to their multiracial clientele. But
when they spoke about politics, the couple sounded like people who knew
something was broken but did not know how it might be fixed. “It is not going
to be pleasant for the next four years,” Ms. Roberts said. “It is going to be a
battle. ”
