Mr. Coats and traveled with him in Eastern <location>Europe</location>. “He’s not a fierce
partisan and knows the intelligence community. He’s very amiable and easy to
work with. ” The position of <location>America</location>’s top intelligence official was created by
Congress in 2004, as a response to criticism that the nation’s spy agencies had
failed to detect and prevent the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. Since
then, the director has been charged with coordinating the   and analysis of the
country’s 16 civilian and military spy agencies, helping to prevent a terrorist
attack and serving as a central liaison to presidents and their White House
staff. But bureaucratic turf wars have dogged the office of the director of
national intelligence since its creation. Officials who run the C. I. A. and
the Defense Intelligence Agency, among others, have sought to maintain control
over parts of the spying apparatus, and to exert influence with presidents and
members of Congress. In 2009, for example, Leon E. Panetta, President Obama’s
incoming C. I. A. director, clashed with Dennis C. Blair, the director of
national intelligence at the time, after Mr. Blair sought to select the top
American spies for overseas postings. Mr. Panetta sent a dispatch to the
agency’s employees telling them to ignore Mr. Blair’s message  —   an assertion
that the C. I. A. was in charge. The rivalries have weakened the national
intelligence office and led some critics in the government to question its
effectiveness. The year that Mr. Obama took office, an internal report
criticized the office of national intelligence for adding to  —   not removing
—   bureaucratic bloat and doing little to end the tensions among the various
spy agencies. In 2010, James R. Clapper Jr. the current director of national
intelligence, insisted during his Senate confirmation hearings that he would
not be a “hood ornament,” saying that despite the inherent limitations on his
job, he would try to bring an end to turf battles among the nation’s spy
agencies. Six years later, the job appears to have limited appeal to some
intelligence professionals, several of whom were not eager to serve in the
position for fear that they would not be empowered. Mr. Coats had been an early
and strong contender for secretary of defense in the first term of President
George W. Bush, until Mr. Bush’s vice president, Dick Cheney, successfully
pressed for Donald H. Rumsfeld. Mr. Coats, 73, graduated from Wheaton College
in <location>Illinois</location>, and served in the Army before studying at the Indiana University
Robert H. McKinney School of Law. He began a career in life insurance in Fort
Wayne, Ind. before joining the office of   Dan Quayle as a district
representative. Mr. Coats owed much of his political career to his ties to Mr.
Quayle, the former vice president. Mr. Coats won Mr. Quayle’s House seat in
1980, the year the latter was elected to the Senate. After Mr. Quayle was
elected vice president in 1988, Mr. Coats was appointed to fill his seat he
served on the Senate Armed Services and Intelligence Committees. 
