For <location>Russia</location>, with an enfeebled economy and a nuclear
arsenal it cannot use short of   war, cyberpower proved the perfect weapon:
cheap, hard to see coming, hard to trace. “There shouldn’t be any doubt in
anybody’s mind,” Adm. Michael S. Rogers, the director of the National Security
Agency and commander of <location>United States</location> Cyber Command, said
at a postelection conference. “This was not something that was done casually,
this was not something that was done by chance, this was not a target that was
selected purely arbitrarily,” he said. “This was a conscious effort by a   to
attempt to achieve a specific effect. ” For the people whose emails were
stolen, this new form of political sabotage has left a trail of shock and
professional damage. Neera Tanden, president of the Center for American
Progress and a key Clinton supporter, recalls walking into the busy Clinton
transition offices, humiliated to see her face on television screens as pundits
discussed a leaked email in which she had called Mrs. Clinton’s instincts
“suboptimal. ” “It was just a sucker punch to the gut every day,” Ms. Tanden
said. “It was the worst professional experience of my life. ” The
<location>United States</location>, too, has carried out cyberattacks, and in
decades past the C. I. A. tried to subvert foreign elections. But the Russian
attack is increasingly understood across the political spectrum as an ominous
historic landmark  —   with one notable exception: Mr. Trump has rejected the
findings of the intelligence agencies he will soon oversee as “ridiculous,”
insisting that the hacker may be American, or Chinese, but that “they have no
idea. ” Mr. Trump cited the reported disagreements between the agencies about
whether Mr. Putin intended to help elect him. On Tuesday, a Russian government
spokesman echoed Mr. Trump’s scorn. “This tale of ‘hacks’ resembles a banal
brawl between American security officials over spheres of influence,” Maria
Zakharova, the spokeswoman for the Russian Foreign Ministry, wrote on Facebook.
Over the weekend, four prominent senators  —   two Republicans and two
Democrats  —   joined forces to pledge an investigation while pointedly
ignoring Mr. Trump’s skeptical claims. “Democrats and Republicans must work
together, and across the jurisdictional lines of the Congress, to examine these
recent incidents thoroughly and devise comprehensive solutions to deter and
defend against further cyberattacks,” said Senators John McCain, Lindsey
Graham, Chuck Schumer and Jack Reed. “This cannot become a partisan issue,”
they said. “The stakes are too high for our country. ” Sitting in the basement
of the Democratic National Committee headquarters, below a   2012 portrait of a
smiling Barack Obama, is a   filing cabinet missing the handle on the bottom
drawer. Only a framed newspaper story hanging on the wall hints at the
importance of this aged piece of office furniture. “GOP Security Aide Among 5
Arrested in Bugging Affair,” reads the headline from the front page of The
<location>Washington</location> Post on June 19, 1972, with the bylines of Bob
Woodward and Carl Bernstein. Andrew Brown, 37, the technology director at the
D. N. C. was born after that famous  . 
