hawn Henry, who once led the F. B. I. ’s cyber division and is now president of
CrowdStrike Services, the cybersecurity firm retained by the D. N. C. in April,
said he was baffled that the F. B. I. did not call a more senior official at
the D. N. C. or send an agent in person to the party headquarters to try to
force a more vigorous response. “We are not talking about an office that is in
the middle of the woods of Montana,” Mr. Henry said. “We are talking about an
office that is half a mile from the F. B. I. office that is getting the
notification. ” “This is not a    delicatessen or a local library. This is a
critical piece of the <location>U. S. </location>infrastructure because it
relates to our electoral process, our elected officials, our legislative
process, our executive process,” he added. “To me it is a   serious issue, and
if after a couple of months you don’t see any results, somebody ought to raise
that to a higher level. ” The F. B. I. declined to comment on the agency’s
handling of the hack. “The F. B. I. takes very seriously any compromise of
public and private sector systems,” it said in a statement, adding that agents
“will continue to share information” to help targets “safeguard their systems
against the actions of persistent cybercriminals. ” By March, Mr. Tamene and
his team had met at least twice in person with the F. B. I. and concluded that
Agent Hawkins was really a federal employee. But then the situation took a dire
turn. A second team of   hackers began to target the D. N. C. and other players
in the political world, particularly Democrats. Billy Rinehart, a former D. N.
C. regional field director who was then working for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign,
got an odd email warning from Google. “Someone just used your password to try
to sign into your Google account,” the March 22 email said, adding that the
attempt had occurred in <location>Ukraine</location>. “Google stopped this
attempt. You should change your password immediately. ” Mr. Rinehart was in
<location>Hawaii</location> at the time. He remembers checking his email at 4
a. m. for messages from East Coast associates. Without thinking much about the
notification, he clicked on the “change password” button and half asleep, as
best he can remember, he typed in a new password. What he did not know until
months later is that he had just given the Russian hackers access to his email
account. Hundreds of similar phishing emails were being sent to American
political targets, including an identical email sent on March 19 to Mr.
Podesta, chairman of the Clinton campaign. Given how many emails Mr. Podesta
received through this personal email account, several aides also had access to
it, and one of them noticed the warning email, sending it to a computer
technician to make sure it was legitimate before anyone clicked on the “change
password” button. “This is a legitimate email,” Charles Delavan, a Clinton
campaign aide, replied to another of Mr. Podesta’s aides, who had noticed the
alert. “John needs to change his password immediately. ” With another click, a
decade of emails that Mr. Podesta maintained in his Gmail account  —   a total
of about 60, 000  —   were unlocked for the Russian hackers. Mr. Delavan, in an
interview, said that his bad advice was a result of a typo: He knew this was a
phishing attack, as the campaign was getting dozens of them. He said he had
meant to type that it was an “illegitimate” email, an error that he said has
plagued him ever since. During this second wave, the hackers also gained access
to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and then, through a virtual
private network connection, to the main computer network of the D. N. C. The F.
B. I. observed this surge of activity as well, again reaching out to Mr. Tamene
to warn him. Yet Mr. Tamene still saw no reason to be alarmed: He found copies
of the phishing emails in the D. N. C. ’s spam filter. But he had no reason, he
said, to believe that the computer systems had been infiltrated. One bit of
progress had finally been made by the middle of April: The D. N. C. seven
months after it had first been warned, finally installed a “robust set of
monitoring tools,” Mr. Tamene’s internal memo says. The <location>United
States</location> had two decades of warning that <location>Russia</location>’s
intelligence agencies were trying to break into America’s most sensitive
computer networks. But the Russians have always managed to stay a step ahead.
Their first major attack was detected on Oct. 7, 1996, when a computer operator
at the Colorado School of Mines discovered some nighttime computer activity he
could not explain. The school had a major contract with the Navy, and the
operator warned his contacts there. But as happened two decades later at the D.
N. C. at first “everyone was unable to connect the dots,” said Thomas Rid, a
scholar at King’s College in London who has studied the attack. Investigators
gave it a name  —   Moonlight Maze  —   and spent two years, often working day
and night, tracing how it hopped from the Navy to the Department of Energy to
the Air Force and NASA. In the end, they concluded that the total number of
files stolen, if printed and stacked, would be taller than the Washington
Monument. Whole weapons designs were flowing out the door, and it was a first
taste of what was to come: an escalating campaign of cyberattacks around the
world. But for years, the Russians stayed largely out of the headlines, thanks
to the Chinese  —   who took bigger risks, and often got caught. They stole the
designs for the   fighter jet, corporate secrets for rolling steel, even the
blueprints for gas pipelines that supply much of the <location>United
States</location>. And during the 2008 presidential election cycle, Chinese
intelligence hacked into the campaigns of Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain, making off
with internal position papers and communications. But they didn’t publish any
of it. 
