ssumption  —   still unproved  —   was that the code was put out in the open by
the Russians as a warning: Retaliate for the D. N. C. and there are a lot more
secrets, from the hackings of the State Department, the White House and the
Pentagon, that might be spilled as well. One senior official compared it to the
scene in “The Godfather” where the head of a favorite horse is left in a bed,
as a warning. The N. S. A. said nothing. But by late August, Admiral Rogers,
its director, was pressing for a more muscular response to the Russians. In his
role as director of the Pentagon’s Cyber Command, he proposed a series of
potential  . While officials will not discuss them in detail, the possible
counterstrikes reportedly included operations that would turn the tables on Mr.
Putin, exposing his financial links to <location>Russia</location>’s oligarchs,
and punching holes in the Russian internet to allow dissidents to get their
message out. Pentagon officials judged the measures too unsubtle and ordered up
their own set of options. But in the end, none of those were formally presented
to the president. In a series of “deputies meetings” run by Avril Haines, the
deputy national security adviser and a former deputy director of the C. I. A.
several officials warned that an overreaction by the administration would play
into Mr. Putin’s hands. “If we went to Defcon 4,” one frequent participant in
Ms. Haines’s meetings said, using a phrase from the Cold War days of warnings
of war, “we would be saying to the public that we didn’t have confidence in the
integrity of our voting system. ” Even something seemingly straightforward  —
using the president’s executive powers, bolstered after the Sony incident, to
place economic and travel sanctions on cyberattackers  —   seemed too risky.
“No one was all that eager to impose costs before Election Day,” said another
participant in the classified meeting. “Any retaliatory measures were seen
through the prism of what would happen on Election Day. ” Instead, when Mr.
Obama’s national security team reconvened after summer vacation, the focus
turned to a crash effort to secure the nation’s voting machines and   rolls
from hacking. The scenario they discussed most frequently  —   one that turned
out not to be an issue  —   was a narrow vote in favor of Mrs. Clinton,
followed by a declaration by Mr. Trump that the vote was “rigged” and more
leaks intended to undercut her legitimacy. Donna Brazile, the interim
chairwoman of the D. N. C. became increasingly frustrated as the clock
continued to run down on the presidential election  —   and still there was no
broad public condemnation by the White House, or Republican Party leaders, of
the attack as an act of foreign espionage. Ms. Brazile even reached out to
Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, urging him
twice in private conversations and in a letter to join her in condemning the
attacks  —   an offer he declined to take up. “We just kept hearing the
government would respond, the government would respond,” she said. “Once upon a
time, if a foreign government interfered with our election we would respond as
a nation, not as a political party. ” But Mr. Obama did decide that he would
deliver a warning to Mr. Putin in person at a Group of 20 summit meeting in
<location>Hangzhou</location>, <location>China</location>, the last time they
would be in the same place while Mr. Obama was still in office. When the two
men met for a tense   Mr. Obama explicitly warned Mr. Putin of a strong
American response if there was continued effort to influence the election or
manipulate the vote, according to White House officials who were not present
for the    meeting. Later that day, Mr. Obama made a rare reference to
America’s own offensive cybercapacity, which he has almost never talked about.
