The breeze came from a large
fan under the grate operated by the film’s special effects chief. The night  —
Sept. 15  —   was actually quite chilly. But the stunt worked. It became known
as “the shot seen around the world. ” But there was a dark subtext to the
comedy. Gathered at that late hour were hundreds of gawkers, almost all men,
who catcalled and yelled things like, “Higher! Higher!” as Ms. Monroe’s dress
blew up over her head. For two hours, the men watched from surrounding
buildings and from the street. “Unfortunately, one of them was her husband, Joe
DiMaggio,” Mr. Wilder is quoted as saying in his biography, “Nobody’s Perfect.
” “And he didn’t like what he saw, or what everyone else was seeing. ” Mr.
DiMaggio hadn’t planned on visiting the set that night, and was waiting for his
wife at the St. Regis Hotel, where the couple were staying. But the columnist
Walter Winchell had persuaded him to come along. Ms. Monroe was not happy her
husband had shown up. But he was even more unhappy and angrily stormed off.
Later that night the couple had a screaming fight in their room. The next
morning, her hairdresser covered up Ms. Monroe’s bruises with makeup. Three
weeks later, Ms. Monroe filed for divorce. Mr. Wilder never used the <location>Lexington
Avenue</location> footage and reshot the scene on a closed lot in Hollywood, though
photographs of that night appeared everywhere. Except for some brief, grainy
shots from a newsreel covering the divorce, footage from that night was never
screened. “The footage immediately disappeared,” Mr. Wilder said in the
biography. “But one day I’m sure some film scholar will dig it up. ” The story
of the night Marilyn Monroe’s white   dress blew up was well known among Jules
Schulback’s children, and even among his grandchildren. His granddaughter
Bonnie Siegler said he bragged from time to time about his personal film shoot
with Marilyn. “He was a real raconteur,” said Ms. Siegler, a graphic designer
who runs her own company, Eight and a Half. “I didn’t know if the story was
real. ” But even though she had never seen it, she often told people that her
grandfather had footage of Marilyn Monroe on the subway grate. Ms. Siegler’s
older sister, Rayna Dineen, said her grandfather, whom they called Opi (a
German term of endearment) was rarely without his camera. “He would be filming
everywhere, all the time. ” There were reels of vacations, family picnics,
birthday parties and bar mitzvahs. He had even filmed a   day in the life of
his daughters, depicting them waking up, brushing their teeth and going to
school. “But the Marilyn story was one of his favorite stories to tell,” Ms.
Dineen said. It was just one of dozens of amazing tales. Mr. Schulback had a
long, technicolorful life, one so filled with drama that his Monroe story
sometimes seemed like a footnote. In 1938, Mr. Schulback had argued with his
family in <location>Germany</location> that Adolf Hitler was much more dangerous than anyone
thought. According to Ms. Siegler, his family believed that Hitler’s hate
speech was simply rhetoric, and that he wouldn’t act on anything he was saying.
Mr. Schulback, 25 at the time, urged them to pack their bags and leave <location>Berlin</location>
with him. But they resisted, opting to wait and see how things developed, never
imagining the horror that awaited them and millions of other European Jews. Mr.
Schulback was not taking any chances.
