He and his family lived a happy, successful life in <location>New York</location>, much of it preserved
in his home movies. As a child, Ms. Siegler loved going to her grandfather’s
Upper East Side apartment not just because of his great stories and sense of
humor, but also because he lived opposite the New York Doll Hospital. From his
apartment window, she could see the buckets of doll eyes and doll arms. “It was
really intense,” she said. When Edith had a stroke in the 1970s, she was given
only a few weeks to live. But Mr. Schulback, always a man of action, refused to
let his wife die in the hospital and took her home. The couple moved into the
apartment of a building around the corner, and Mr. Schulback became her nurse.
“Half her body was paralyzed, she couldn’t speak,” Ms. Siegler said. “But he
loved her and took care of her for 26 years until she finally died. ” After 35
years in that same apartment, Mr. Schulback  —   who had been president of the
61st Street Block Association  —   was forced to leave. The Andrew W. Mellon
Foundation had bought the townhouse where he lived and the one behind it and
wanted to reconfigure the property. So Ms. Siegler and her husband, Jeff Scher,
helped move her    grandfather to a new place on the other side of Central
Park. In 2004, in the arduous packing up of Mr. Schulback’s home, the couple
came across a big stash of film. It was stored in a back room that the family
called “Opi’s fur room,” where Mr. Schulback had once assembled garments from
animal pelts for his business. “No one ever wanted to go back there,” Ms.
Siegler said. “But when we went in, we found this plastic bag filled with just
tons of film, home movies, bought movies and everything mixed together. ” Ms.
Siegler’s husband, an experimental filmmaker, couldn’t wait to screen the
films. He was particularly interested in seeing whether Marilyn and the subway
grate footage actually existed. “It was like this family myth,” Mr. Scher said.
“So long rumored and never confirmed. ” The same was true for its source
material. For decades, innuendo swirled around the <location>Lexington Avenue</location> shoot for
“The Seven Year Itch. ” Ms. Monroe and Mr. DiMaggio had married that January
and had already had a bumpy ride, the Yankee Clipper enraged by her
exhibitionism and by rumors of infidelity, according to Lois W. Banner, the
author of the 2012 biography “Marilyn: The Passion and the Paradox. ” “She was
having an affair with her musical director at the time, and everyone knew about
it in the business,” said Dr. Banner, a professor emeritus of history and
gender studies at the University of Southern California. So before he even
arrived on set, there was tension. “DiMaggio,” Dr. Banner said, “was not happy
with Marilyn. ” There are several theories as to why the footage from that
night was never used. Some believe the Manhattan shoot was done purely as a
publicity stunt, which was made even more sensational when Mr. DiMaggio showed
up. Some biographers say the enthusiastic crowd was just too noisy, making the
film unusable. A third theory was that the footage was too risqué and Ms.
Monroe wanted to shoot a more demure version, so as not to further infuriate
her husband. There was even talk at the time that she wasn’t wearing any
underwear. Mr. Wilder tried to put those rumors to rest in his biography. She
had put on not just one, but two sets of underwear, he said. Dr. Banner said
all three reasons quite likely played into the final decision to reshoot. “But
the photographs of that night had gone viral by the time the film was being put
together,” she said, “and played a great role in her fame. ” The   scene used
in the finished film is incredibly brief and tame. The image many people have
of that moment comes from the press shots and publicity stills in <location>New York</location>, and
not from the finished movie. Back in the pelt room of Mr. Schulback’s
apartment, Mr. Scher excitedly gathered up the old metal film canisters. None
were labeled, Mr. Scher recalled. Some of the film was off the reel and sitting
there like big balls of spaghetti, as if there had been a projector mishap
years ago. Later that night in his studio in the couple’s apartment on West
16th Street, Mr. Scher slowly and carefully wound the film, since some of it
was very brittle and in danger of breaking. He did a few repairs and then began
looking at it using a light box, spooling it from reel to reel by hand. There
were about 50 rolls of   film and around 75 rolls of 8 millimeter. There were
the family outings and parades. The birthdays and bar mitzvahs. And there, amid
the mundane scenes of precious everyday life, was Marilyn Monroe, in crisp,
colorful Kodachrome. “This stuff just popped out,” Mr. Scher said. “It was
real! Preserved like the home movies are, too. Just these moments in time. ”
Mr. Scher could clearly see the actress’s dress billowing up. “Like a parachute
with a pair of legs attached,” he said. “It was startling. Like seeing a myth
materialize. ” It was a shadow version of lost footage amid home movies of a
family that almost certainly wouldn’t have existed had the Schulbacks stayed in
Germany. Mr. Scher called out to his wife: “It’s really here!” They watched all
3 minutes 17 seconds in amazement. “There was something so magical about it,”
Ms. Siegler said. “For years I didn’t know if it was real. I certainly didn’t
believe it wholeheartedly. And there it was. It was like the end of the story.
” The film starts with a   intertitle that reads “World Premiere,” Mr.
Schulback’s little inside joke. And then there is Marilyn Monroe, in a white
terry robe, coming down the stoop of a   building at 164 East 61st Street,
between Lexington and Third Avenues. It was the earlier scene  —   before the
subway grate footage  —   that Mr. Schulback had shot. Cameramen and press
photographers are gathered outside as the actress smiles and waves. Cut to Ms.
Monroe in a   window wearing a slip and   her hair. Mr. Ewell walks down the
street and into the building. The film cuts inexplicably to 30 seconds of what
must be a Shriners parade in <location>Manhattan</location>, then jumps to another intertitle, which
reads “Our Baby. ” And suddenly, there is Ms. Monroe again, this time on the
subway grate in that famously fluttering white dress, holding a matching white
clutch in her right hand and a     scarf in her left. Mr. Schulback was
incredibly close, filming right behind Mr. Wilder’s shoulder, stopping to wind
his   camera every 25 seconds. Now and then, a silhouette of the director’s arm
intrudes into Mr. Schulback’s   shot. At one point Mr. Wilder, in a fedora,
passes across the frame. Ms. Monroe gets into position and yawns, while the
cinematographer sets up the camera. Through a gap in the film crew, Mr.
Schulback captures just her face, looking off to the left, serious and
unsmiling. Then Mr. Ewell is there, chatting with Ms. Monroe, who pushes him
into position. The dress flutters again, Ms. Monroe holds it down, bending
slightly, smiling and talking to Mr. Ewell, but it flutters up some more and
she laughs, her head thrown back. It blows up again, but she doesn’t push it
down this time, and it flies up over her head, clearly revealing two pairs of
underwear that, because of the bright lights, do not protect Ms. Monroe’s
modesty quite as much as she might have liked. Then, as suddenly as she
appeared, Marilyn is gone, and the film reverts to   mode: Edith Schulback
walking on the grass at a family outing in the country. It’s like being shaken
from some crazy dream, back to reality. Interest in that moment in film history
from more than 50 years ago endures. The new movie musical starring Ryan
Gosling and Emma Stone, “La La Land,” makes brief filmic reference to it in the
opening number, with a young dancer’s yellow dress blowing up. And a Snickers
commercial from the Super Bowl last year stars Willem Dafoe, Eugene Levy and a
Monroe on the famous set. “It’s that iconic image,” said Dr. Banner, the Monroe
biographer. “People are still fascinated by the context in which it all
happened. ” After screening the film with her husband, Ms. Siegler immediately
told her grandfather that she had found the footage. “I was so excited about it
—   more for the reason that his story was true. ” She shrugged. “But he never
had any doubts. ” Mr. Schulback moved in 2005 and died six months later. Ms.
Siegler and Mr. Scher made a print and screened it for about 100 people in 2004
at the upstate home of their friends Kurt Andersen and his wife, Anne Kreamer.
The two couples had started a small film festival for neighbors and friends,
hanging a sheet on the side of a barn and serving popcorn, ice pops and beer.
The people in the audience that summer night had no idea what they were in for.
“That scene is one of the most iconic scenes in American cinema,” said Mr.
Andersen, an author, radio host and a founder of Spy magazine. “So to have film
of it actually being shot, it’s like watching the Zapruder film. It’s just
extraordinary. ” The crowd that evening sat in silence as Marilyn Monroe’s
dress blew up on the side of the barn. “People were ” Mr. Andersen said. “They
were like, ‘What did I just see? ’” That was the only time anyone outside the
family had seen the film. Until now.
