 The “pattern and practice” approach developed after the Rodney
King beating in <location>Los Angeles</location> in 1991 forced a period of national introspection
over how to curb misconduct if individual officers could not be held
accountable. A jury’s decision not to convict the four officers charged in the
attack on Mr. King incited deadly riots. Since the early attempts, Mr. Walker
said, consent decrees have evolved to be more sophisticated and comprehensive.
“The general pattern is that there is some backsliding on some issues,” he
said, “but I don’t think there’s a case where a department has completely
collapsed back to where it was before. ” Still, Senator Jeff Sessions,
Republican of <location>Alabama</location> and the nominee for attorney general under   Donald J.
Trump, called them “dangerous,” writing in 2008 that they “constitute an end
run around the democratic process. ” At his confirmation hearing this past
week, he softened that critique, saying there were some circumstances that
legitimately demanded consent decrees and that those already in place would be
enforced. But, Mr. Sessions said, lawsuits could unfairly target whole police
departments for the misdeeds of a few bad actors. “These lawsuits undermine the
respect for police officers and create an impression that the entire department
is not doing their work consistent with fidelity to law and fairness,” he said.
His critique did not extend to how well consent decrees actually work. But
experts say that even systemic changes, like greater oversight of officers’ use
of force, can be slow to yield results. “They change the ‘inputs’ through
training, record keeping, community involvement and other internal reforms, but
the inputs don’t necessarily translate into changes in ‘outputs’ including
racial disparities, use of force, or other constitutional issues,” wrote Jeff
Fagan, a Columbia University law professor, in an email. “The results have been
quite variable. ” Consent decrees can span years and many of the Obama
administration’s key settlements have just begun, including those in <location>Cleveland</location>
and Albuquerque. So it would be premature to assess their success. Some reform
advocates have expressed fears that the Trump administration will fail to
investigate police departments or enforce consent decrees, robbing them of what
they view as a crucial lever to compel change. Even some police chiefs might
mourn a retreat from consent decrees. Baltimore’s police commissioner, Kevin
Davis, has said that a consent decree would aid community relations. Charles H.
Ramsey, who as Washington’s police chief invited the Justice Department to
review his department, said, “The DOJ gives legitimacy to the changes that
you’re making. ” Chiefs may want consent decrees in order to insulate them from
political and union opposition to change, as well as make it easier to demand
money to pay for reforms. Mr. Sessions wrote in his critique of consent decrees
in 2008 that he is aware of that strategy. “Such decrees are particularly
offensive when certain governmental agencies secretly delight in being sued
because they hope a settlement will be reached resulting in the agency
receiving more money,” he wrote. “Thus, the taxpayers ultimately fund the
settlement enacted through this undemocratic process. ”

