He returned to the <location>United States</location> for a public
relations job in <location>Los Angeles</location>, where he hoped to begin his career as a
writer. He had already published his first book  —   a memoir, “Which Way
to Mecca, Jack?”  —   but was still working in public relations in 1961
when he appeared as a contestant on “You Bet Your Life,” the television
quiz show hosted by Groucho Marx. He and a fellow contestant won $10, 000.
His winnings freed him to quit his day job and become a   writer. He never
had a regular job again. Mr. Blatty lived in Bethesda. In addition to his
wife, the former Julie Witbrodt, whom he married in 1983, he is survived by
their son, Paul William Blatty three daughters, Christine Charles, Mary
Joanne Blatty and Jennifer Blatty and two sons, Michael and William Peter
Jr. from earlier marriages seven grandchildren and six  . Another son,
Peter Vincent Blatty, died in 2006 his death was the subject of Mr.
Blatty’s 2015 book, “Finding Peter. ” His work after “The Exorcist”
included several more theologically themed works of horror, including “The
Ninth Configuration” in 1978 (a reworking of “Twinkle, Twinkle, Killer
Kane,” from 1966)  —   and “Legion” in 1983. Both books were made into
movies, directed as well as written by Mr. Blatty the film version of
“Legion” was released in 1990 as “The Exorcist III. ” Mr. Blatty became
reconciled over the years to the overwhelming dominance “The Exorcist”  —
most recently adapted into a 2016 TV    —   would have on his reputation as
a writer. (He also maintained a sense of humor about it, as reflected in
the name of a comic novel about Hollywood he published in 1996: “Demons
Five, Exorcists Nothing. ”) He knew, he told several interviewers, that it
would be what people remembered him for. But one thing bothered him. Many
moviegoers, including the president of Warner Bros. had interpreted the
movie’s climax  —   in which the younger of the two priests (played by
Jason Miller) goads the demon into leaving the girl to take up residence
inside him instead, then jumps to his death  —   as a win for the demon.
That was not how Mr. Blatty meant it. For years he pleaded his case to Mr.
Friedkin, a longtime friend. In 2000, Mr. Friedkin relented, issuing a
director’s cut of the film that made the triumph of Good over Evil more
explicit. With the same purpose in mind, Mr. Blatty rewrote parts of the
original book, even adding a chapter, for a   edition of “The Exorcist”
published in 2011. It was essential to him, he told The   of New Orleans in
2000, that people understand the point of “The Exorcist”: “That God exists
and the universe itself will have a happy ending. ”

