In a survey of 233 financial services companies
published in The Sunday Times of London last week, 39 said they would reduce
staffing because of the Brexit vote, and half of that number had already
started to do so. For British banks, a big worry is whether they will able to
continue offering services to clients across the bloc. “Most international
banks now have project teams working out which operations they need to move to
ensure they can continue serving customers, the date by which this must happen,
and how best to do it,” Anthony Browne, the chief executive of the British
Bankers Association, wrote in The Observer last year. “Their hands are
quivering over the relocate button,” he added. Sectors like agriculture,
hospitality and construction are worried about labor. They all rely heavily on
workers from Southern or Eastern <location>Europe</location>, whose right to employment here may be
curbed to achieve Mrs. May’s objective of reducing immigration. Mrs. May has
not said explicitly whether she wants Britain to remain in
Europe’s Customs Union, which provides for   trade across the   bloc, and
includes some nonmembers like Turkey. Nor has she detailed
what kind of relationship she wants with the European Union’s single market,
which aims to eliminate nontariff barriers and to forge a single services
market. But she said in a recent interview that when Britain quits the union,
it will not be keeping “bits” of its membership, suggesting that she will be
seeking something closer to a clean break, or “hard Brexit. ” And with the
clock now ticking toward a planned departure from the union in 2019, companies
are already having to contemplate that outcome, even before Ms. May lays out
her intentions on Tuesday. For Mr. Magal, the threat of trade tariffs is
forcing him to rethink the structure of his business. The company assembles
thermostatic control units for car manufacturers, including Jaguar Land Rover
in <location>Britain</location> and Daimler in <location>Germany</location>.
Tariffs could add anything up to 10 percent to the price of some of his
products, an increase he can neither afford to absorb nor pass on.
