The government said that people
depositing large amounts of old currency  —   more than 250, 000 rupees, or
about $3, 670, could be asked to prove that they had paid taxes on it. Some saw
vast amounts of untaxed holdings suddenly rendered worthless. Whether Mr.
Modi’s   move will actually reduce corruption is a matter of debate. Some
economists believe it could pave the way for other measures intended to
discourage bribery or restructure the economy. But others say the currency ban
is unlikely to result in a significant reduction in corruption, even as it has
inconvenienced hundreds of millions of people who have struggled to get enough
cash to meet their daily needs while the government tries to print enough new
notes to replace the banned ones. And a country short of cash has been unable
to spend it, which is likely to reduce economic growth in the short term,
economists say. People living on the edge of poverty have been hit hard, their
diets and livelihoods severely affected. Many in <location>India</location> see
Mr. Modi, who has also had success persuading Parliament to clear the way for a
unified    tax to make it easier to ship and sell things across state lines, as
living up to his promise to be a reformer of <location>India</location>’s
ossified and bureaucratic economy. But in the process, he has placed the Indian
economy and his political future at risk. Many economists believe that the
Indian economy will take at least a   hit because of a dire shortage of cash,
and that the future impact is uncertain. If the effects are prolonged, the
public support for Modi could wane. “If this move damages the economy, he’s in
for a rough ride,” said Harsh Pant, the head of strategic studies at the
Observer Research Foundation, a <location>New Delhi</location> think tank. Mr.
Xiao said that in a system in which the informal sector is substantial, the
economy could be expected to experience a shock when so much cash is suddenly
taken out. “You need offsetting stimulus policies to keep the economy growing,”
he said. Mr. Modi was elected by an overwhelming majority in 2014, defeating
the government, led by the Indian National Congress party, that had ruled for
most of the country’s   life, on the promise of bringing development and jobs
and reducing corruption.
