President Trump has blamed “obstruction by Democrats” for delays in confirming
his senior appointments, saying on Twitter that “it is a disgrace that my full
cabinet is still not in place. ” But the slow pace of filling out Mr. Trump’s
cabinet can be attributed in part to decisions made in the early days of the
nominee vetting process. The Trump transition team deviated from the practices
of recent Democratic and Republican administrations, according to five people
directly involved with the transition process. The Trump team chose to skip a
practice of grilling nominees to prepare them and protect the president from
potential embarrassment during the confirmation process. Candidates, for
example, were not asked about financial conflicts and past vices known
informally as the “sex, drugs and rock ’n’ roll” questions. The rushed approach
has led to some of Mr. Trump’s nominees many with immense wealth and complex
business interests being held back by unexpected revelations. Representative
Tom Price of <location>Georgia</location>, his pick for secretary of the Health
and Human Services Department, placed stock trades that were questioned Andrew
F. Puzder, the labor secretary nominee, hired an undocumented household worker
Representative Mick Mulvaney of <location>South Carolina</location>, the choice
for budget director, skipped paying taxes on a nanny and Steven T. Mnuchin, the
Treasury secretary nominee, made major omissions about financial holdings. “It
was game time and they walked up without any uniforms on and with no playbook,”
Clay Johnson III, who directed George W. Bush’s transition effort in 2000, said
about the initial vetting process by Mr. Trump’s administration. So far, nine
of Mr. Trump’s nominees who require Senate confirmation have been approved.
Eight years ago at this time, 12 of Barack Obama’s appointments had been
confirmed, while 15 of Mr. Bush’s had been confirmed in 2001. Throughout his
campaign, through the transition and in the early days of his presidency, Mr.
Trump has often chosen to do things his own way, ignoring protocols. After his
election, Mr. Trump held court at Trump Tower in
<location>Manhattan</location>, and other Trump properties, meeting with job
candidates and celebrating the selection of his cabinet and White House staff
but before the routine background scrubbing that typically occurs. In a
significant omission, the new administration early on did not ask cabinet
nominees and top White House officials to fill out the “sex, drugs and rock ’n’
roll” questionnaire that has become a routine part of the nomination process.
