Zip ties can also be used
on wreaths, so that they can be hung on coat hangers and covered with plastic
garment bags from the dry cleaner. To avoid a stockpile of holiday cards, “save
only those that are meaningful and special,” Tova Weinstock, a professional
organizer in <location>Brooklyn</location>, said. “For the others, appreciate
them as you receive them and then kindly send them to the trash. ” EDIT YOUR
CLOSET Eliminating clothes you never wear is easier said than done. “I don’t
believe in ‘If you haven’t used or worn something in a year, get rid of it,’”
said Laura Cattano, another organizer in <location>Brooklyn</location>. “How
you want to live moving forward is a much better guide for editing than whether
or not you actually have used something in the past. ” Focus on the image you
would like to project, she said, then start at one end of the closet and review
each piece, pulling out those you know you can toss, donate or sell. Try on
anything you haven’t worn in a while and consider how it makes you feel or if
it could be styled differently. Clothes you have forgotten about could be “your
new favorite thing,” she said, while there may be some pieces you wear all the
time that should be retired. (If you subscribe to the Marie Kondo method of
decluttering, ask yourself, “Does it ‘spark joy? ’”) Sort clothes by type,
grouping pants together, then shirts or blouses, jackets or dresses. “If you
can’t see it, you won’t wear it,” said Sharon Lowenheim, an organizer on the
Upper East Side of <location>Manhattan</location> and the founder of the
Organizing Goddess. “So remove dry cleaning bags and hang only one item per
hanger. ” Arranging shirts by sleeve length, with the shortest at the front,
makes them easier to find, said Ms. Lowenheim, who also subscribes to a
rotation method: selecting garments to wear from the front of each section,
then hanging them up toward the back after they are cleaned. “If you find
yourself continually bypassing an item at the front, that is a signal to you
that you just don’t like that item,” she said. “Get rid of it. ” Another way to
keep your closet streamlined is to store   clothes out of sight, said Faith
Roberson, an organizer in <location>Manhattan</location> and the founder of
Organize With Faith. When clothes have been put away for half the year and
you’ve done fine without them, “it changes your perspective,” she said. “
