The chief executive of Sony’s underperforming entertainment
division, Michael Lynton, announced Friday that he would step down to focus
more intently on the popular messaging service Snapchat, where he was an early
investor. Mr. Lynton, who weathered various corporate crises at Sony
Entertainment over his   tenure, including a devastating cyberattack and a
battle with activist investors, will step down on Feb. 2, the company said.
After that, Kazuo Hirai, the president and chief executive of Sony Corporation,
based in <location>Tokyo</location>, will take a more   role at the conglomerate’s movie, television
and music division, at least for a time. Mr. Hirai will begin keeping a second
office at Sony’s studio complex in <location>Culver City</location>, 
<location>Calif</location>. the company said, and
take the additional title of   executive of Sony Entertainment. Mr. Lynton will
also serve as   executive for a   period starting in February to help Mr. Hirai
learn the inner workings of the   movie and television businesses and select a
permanent successor. In the meantime, Mr. Lynton, 57, will officially become
chairman of the board at Snap Inc. which owns Snapchat. Snap is expected to go
public  —   with an eye toward being valued at $30 billion or more  —   this
spring. As chairman, Mr. Lynton is not expected to play a direct management
role, but rather focus on matters involving strategy and governance in support
of Evan Spiegel, Snap’s chief executive. “I have been involved with Evan and
Snapchat since its early days, and, given its growth since then, decided the
time was right to transition,” Mr. Lynton said in a statement. He added that he
was confident that “the broad changes we have made and new management team we
have assembled over the last few years” at Sony would bear fruit. Despite
wrenching turnaround efforts  —   Mr. Lynton hired a new movie chief in 2015  —
Sony’s film operation, which includes the Columbia, Screen Gems and TriStar
labels, has experienced a prolonged shortage of breakout hits.
