The residents were cooperating with security forces to help root out Islamic State
sleeper cells. A visit to <location>Falluja</location> by Times journalists
showed that last summer’s battle had left some sections of the city relatively
unscathed, but had reduced others to rubble. Many streets were littered with
crumpled buildings, collapsed roofs and   cars, all coated with gray dust. The
skeleton of a crushed Humvee lay near Mr. Rashid’s home. For Mr. Rashid, the
satisfaction of returning home was dimmed by resentment toward local Sunni
officials charged with rebuilding the city. “We get nothing from them but
promises  —   we are on our own,” he said as his two young sons fed dry grass
to the campfire. The family members survive on food purchased at a newly opened
market in a nearby district. Their own Al Alamin neighborhood offered only a
bleak panorama of   homes and deserted streets. “Falluja has had some hard
lessons  —   we hope this will be our last hard lesson,” said Sheikh Talib
the head of <location>Falluja</location>’s local council, who has promised
returnees that help is on the way. Mr. Efan spoke in a cold, darkened room,
within a building he said had been used as an Islamic State headquarters and
was now the council’s makeshift office. The electricity sputtered on and off.
Mr. Efan is a returnee himself. His three homes  —   one for each wife  —
were destroyed during the Islamic State occupation, he said. He has lived at a
friend’s house since returning in August. “People have to expect delays,” he
said. “They need to be patient. ” The United Nations Development Program said
it had made stopgap repairs to the city’s main teaching hospital and to five
schools and health centers. The agency has restored rudimentary electricity and
water in many areas, cleared debris and hired 300 locals to clean streets. Lise
Grande, the United Nations deputy special representative in
<location>Iraq</location>, said the agency’s stabilization work was to help
patch up Falluja until more permanent repairs could be made. The agency has
spent $8. 6 million of $18. 5 million allocated  —   a small fraction of the
amount needed to rebuild the city.
