But Ms. Xu and her classmates have found that, in reality, being a butler is strenuous work.
On a recent morning, they practiced for hours, learning to serve wine and water
the proper way. Again and again, the class of eight clasped a wine bottle near
its bottom and stepped forward in unison around a dinner table to dispense just
enough wine to reach the widest part of a wine glass. Not a drop was to splash
the tablecloth or, heaven forbid, a guest. “Stretch, pour, up, twist, back,
wipe. Try to extend your arm,” Mr. Noble commanded, using his   translator.
“You want to be able to extend your arm as much as possible. You’re doing a
ballet. ” Students also take classes on serving formal dinners, packing
luggage, cleaning house and countless other details of managing life for the
rich. “You have to get the details right to do your job right,” said Yang
Linjun, a    student in the class. “Your arms get sore and your hands hurt, but
this is a lifestyle. ” After they graduate, many hope to attach themselves to
China’s growing number of superrich. In return, they may earn monthly wages of
$2, 800 or much higher as personal butlers, depending on experience and luck  —
more than for many service jobs. By 2015, China had 400 billionaires and
billionaire families, an increase of 65 from just a year earlier, according to
Forbes’ annual list. The country’s richest 1 percent own about   of household
wealth, a share similar to the concentration of wealth in <location>America</location>. Manners can
be rough in <location>China</location>, sometimes in a warm way, sometimes less so. But that has
been changing as people grow richer, travel and live abroad, and bring back a
demand for polished, attentive service. “A decade ago, very few Chinese people
stayed in   hotels,” said Yang Kaojun, a property manager with the Summit
Group, which employs teams of trained butlers who are at the beck and call of
residents. “But now many people have, and that’s given them some understanding
of what good service is. ” As well as the Chengdu academy, the Sanda
University, a private college in <location>Shanghai</location>, has incorporated butler training
into its hospitality program.
