William Peter Blatty, the author whose   book “The Exorcist” was both a
milestone in horror fiction and a turning point in his own career, died on
Thursday in <location>Bethesda</location>, <location>Md</location>. He was 89. The cause was multiple myeloma, his wife,
Julie Blatty, said. “The Exorcist,” the story of a    girl possessed by a
demon, was published in 1971 and sold more than 13 million copies. The 1973
movie version, starring Linda Blair and directed by William Friedkin, was a
runaway hit, breaking   records at many theaters and becoming the   film to
date for Warner Bros. studios. It earned Mr. Blatty, who wrote the screenplay,
an Academy Award. (It was also the first horror movie nominated for the
Oscar.) “The Exorcist” marked a radical shift in Mr. Blatty’s career, which was
already well established in another genre: He was one of Hollywood’s leading
comedy writers. Mr. Blatty collaborated with the director Blake Edwards on the
screenplays for four films, beginning in 1964 with “A Shot in the Dark,” the
second movie (after “The Pink Panther”) starring Peter Sellers as the bumbling
Inspector Clouseau and, in some critics’ view, the best. His other Edwards
films were the comedy “What Did You Do in the War, Daddy?” (1966) the musical
“Darling Lili” (1970) and “Gunn” (1967) based on the television detective
series “Peter Gunn. ” He also wrote the scripts for comedies starring Danny
Kaye, Warren Beatty and Zero Mostel. In praising his 1963 novel, “John
Goldfarb, Please Come Home! ,” a Cold War spoof that Mr. Blatty later adapted
for the screen, Martin Levin of The New York Times invoked the humorist S. J.
Perelman, one of Mr. Blatty’s literary idols Mr. Blatty, he said, “writes
like Perelman run amuck. ” The phenomenal success of “The Exorcist”
essentially signaled the end of Mr. Blatty’s comedy career, making him for
all practical purposes the foremost writer in a new hybrid genre:
theological horror. It was a mantle he was never entirely comfortable
wearing. When he declined his publisher’s entreaties for a sequel to “The
Exorcist” and instead delivered an elegiac memoir about his mother, “I’ll
Tell Them I Remember You,” published in 1973, Mr. Blatty felt the first
cinch of the   straitjacket. “My publisher took it because I wanted to do
it,” he was quoted as saying in “Faces of Fear” (1985) a collection of
interviews with horror writers by Douglas E. Winter. “But the bookstores
were really hostile. ” “The sad truth is that nobody wants me to write
comedy,” he said in another interview. “ ‘The Exorcist’ not only ended that
career it expunged all memory of its existence. ” Mr. Blatty gave various
accounts of what led him to try his hand at horror. He sometimes said the
market for his comedy had waned in the late 1960s, and he was ready to move
on. At other times, he said that his mother’s sudden death in 1967 had led
to a renewed commitment to his Roman Catholic faith, and to a soul
searching about life’s ultimate questions, including the presence of evil
in the world. In every account, he said the idea for “The Exorcist” was
planted in 1949, when he was a student at the   Georgetown University in
<location>Washington</location> and read an account in The Washington Post of an exorcism under
the headline “Priest Frees Mt. Rainier Boy Reported Held in Devil’s Grip. ”

