It faces wary, if not outright skeptical, treatment by Wall
Street utility analysts and energy experts, who say the technology AES
is peddling on such a large scale in <location>California</location>
remains untested and financially risky. “The problem comes if there is
a hiccup with the battery storage business in
<location>California</location>,” said Charles Fishman, a utilities
analyst at Morningstar. “You don’t have the   parent that can push
money to it and keep it out of trouble. ” Despite all the battery
activity in <location>California</location>, executives around the
utility industry remain cautious. “The reason we don’t have widespread
batteries on our system is because it is not   for us,” said Alice
Jackson, vice president for strategic revenue initiatives at <location>Xcel</location>, a
giant electricity and gas utility serving eight Western and Midwestern
states. Xcel has been testing batteries about as long as AES, but
almost exclusively in small pilots. “It’s fair to say we don’t have
experience with this technology to say that it is perfect, or a
nirvana,” Ms. Jackson said. “It’s something we’ll observe as
California goes through its experience. ”
California’s latest experiment with batteries is but the latest bout in
the state’s long struggle to match its energy needs with its
environmental sensibilities. In the early 2000s, after market
deregulation and Enron’s notorious manipulation of gas supplies led to
blackouts and financial instability among the power companies, state
officials decided to lessen reliance on natural gas by encouraging the
development of wind and solar. Under Mr. Schwarzenegger, who was
governor until 2011, officials pushed through a raft of overlapping
regulations that created a boom in renewables, especially solar. But
that upended the traditional patterns of supply and demand, making the
overall energy system technically and economically difficult to manage.
Batteries were the logical solution. But the technology wasn’t fully
developed and was still too expensive. In order for companies to make
the necessary investments, they needed a signal that there would be a
big enough market for their products. So in 2010, the state approved
one of the first   mandates, ultimately requiring utilities to install
some form of storage equipment in their territories. That set off a
flurry of new investment and innovation and, after the sudden closure
of the San Onofre nuclear plant on the coast in northwest <location>San
Diego</location> County in 2012 when a steam generator tube sprung a
leak, new contracts for battery installations. But the Aliso Canyon
accident, which began on Oct. 23, 2015, when the Southern California
Gas Company first detected the leak, put that process on  . The   gas
and intermittent oily mist that spewed forth over almost four months
traveled into the surrounding neighborhoods on the strong winds that
sweep down from the Santa Susana Mountains. At the same time, it forced
the battery strategy into its most   test yet. Now it’s showtime, and
the pressure to succeed is high all around. For AES, it could signify
an important step for a     relic that is seeking to revitalize itself
as a powerhouse in battery storage and other advanced technologies. For
advocates  —   including residents of the Porter Ranch section of
<location>Los Angeles</location>, so   that Steven Spielberg chose it
as the setting for the 1982 movie “E. T.,” but where many still
complain of the rashes, headaches and other debilitating symptoms that
drove thousands from their homes during the leak  —   it could be a
powerful weapon in the fight to keep the gas depot closed. But the
pressure may be highest for the Southern<location>
California</location> utilities, their reputations still blackened by
waves of forced electricity cuts that followed the Enron debacle. No
one wants to contemplate a repeat of that chapter, when blackouts
affected factories and even some hospitals. “When the power goes out,
people die,” said Ms. Kennedy, the former state official. “Failure is
not an option here on any level. ”
